.. _scene_objects:

Data objects
============

A dataset loaded into OVITO from a simulation file typically consists of multiple *data objects*, each representing
a different aspect of the information -- such as the simulation cell geometry, atomic coordinates, or bond connectivity.
:ref:`Modifiers <particles.modifiers>` operate on these different data objects and can dynamically generate new ones as the
dataset is processed in the :ref:`data pipeline <usage.modification_pipeline>`.

In OVITO, data visualization is handled by :ref:`visual elements <visual_elements>`, which generate the
three-dimensional graphical representation of numerical data. Data objects themselves do not have configurable visualization
parameters, but they are associated with corresponding visual elements that control how the data is rendered.

.. table::
  :widths: auto

  ================================================================== ==================================================================
  Data object type                                                   Description
  ================================================================== ==================================================================
  :ref:`Particles <scene_objects.particles>`                         A set of particles with associated per-particle property values.
  :ref:`Bonds <scene_objects.bonds>`                                 A set of bonds connecting pairs of particles.
  :ref:`Simulation cell <scene_objects.simulation_cell>`             Defines the simulation cell geometry and boundary conditions.
  :ref:`Surface mesh <scene_objects.surface_mesh>`                   A mesh representing a closed 2D surface embedded in the simulation domain.
  :ref:`Triangle mesh <scene_objects.triangle_mesh>`                 A general polyhedral mesh composed of vertices and triangular faces.
  :ref:`Data table <scene_objects.data_table>`                       A structured table with values arranged in columns and rows, visualizable as a 2D data plot.
  :ref:`Voxel grid <scene_objects.voxel_grid>`                       A structured 2D or 3D grid composed of uniform voxel elements.
  :ref:`Lines <scene_objects.lines>`                                 Trajectory lines generated by the :ref:`particles.modifiers.generate_trajectory_lines` modifier or the :py:attr:`DataCollection.lines.create() <ovito.data.DataCollection.lines>` Python API.
  :ref:`Dislocations <scene_objects.dislocations>`                   Line defects in crystalline materials extracted by the :ref:`particles.modifiers.dislocation_analysis` modifier.
  :ref:`Vectors <scene_objects.vectors>`                             Arrow glyphs created using the :py:attr:`DataCollection.vectors.create() <ovito.data.DataCollection.vectors>` Python API.
  ================================================================== ==================================================================


.. seealso::

  :py:class:`ovito.data.DataObject` (Python API)


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1
  :hidden:

  particles
  bonds
  simulation_cell
  surface_mesh
  triangle_mesh
  data_table
  voxel_grid
  lines
  dislocations
  vectors